Alright, I want to take a moment to
refactor a couple things in our data
model with the JPA entities that we
created. Now we went through that code
review and saw a couple rough spots in
there. I'm going to show you some stuff
from experience where we can modify the
getters and setters and add a couple
convenience methods for our use to make
the initial working with these entities
a little bit easier. Because what we
don't want to be doing is relying on
people to make sure that we have the
entities related in that bi-directional
relationship. So I had to add in
both sides of. That's something we can
easily go in and have so when we add
like a recipe note to the recipe,
we can automatically have that getter
and setter or the setter I should
say, update that property for us. So we
already doing this so we're just going
to do it programmatically. And this
refactors the code so we have that
centralized because we might be working
with these entities all over the place.
Think about it outside of that and we
want to have one spot in the code that
manages that relationship rather than
having it in multiple spots because when
you have it in multiple spots, you're
going to be relying on people to
remember to do that. Now further down in
the course we are going to show you how
to set up constraints on the JPA
entities and that's a little bit
more advanced topic. We're just getting
our feet wet right now. So I'm going to
go over to IntelliJ now and show you how
how to refactor. So I'm going to show you
the problems that we have and then we'll
go ahead and refactor it and review that
refactoring. Okay so I've got the source
code back up here for our class that
does the bootstrap and in case you
skipped over the code review from the
last assignment, that's what I created
and you'll have a link to this. the
source code. So a little lengthy here as
far as creating a couple recipes. We're
going and we get the unit of measures
and the categories. So really not much of a
way around this but the one area that I
wanted to highlight is in creating the
actual Recipe objects. There's a couple
things here and I just dropped a
couple comments in. So here on the guacNotes we need to go
in and set the recipe on guacNotes but
also inversely, on the guac
Recipe, we need to set the notes object
there and that's going to establish the
ID value and that bi-directional
relationship. And what we can do on the
recipe object is add in some logic to
the setter there. So when we pass in a
notes object we'll set the ID on that
notes object. So just a little bit of
coding that we can save and it makes it
nice because if you're doing this
somewhere else, you always have to
maintain that relationship. So what we'll
do is we'll refactor this and get the
code into one spot. Then on line 135 here,
this here is just very lengthy code and
we could definitely make it a lot
lighter and a little bit easier to use
and I added in a constructor and
ingredient to make this a little bit
easier to work with.
But still, quite lengthy because we have
to go in to take the guacRecipe object
and get the ingredients which will give
us the Set and then we can call the add
method on it and we have to be sure that
we pass in an ingredient that has a guac
Recipe associated with it. So we need to
have that association already built but
we could provide a helper method to add
to the ingredients to go ahead and
update that relationship for us. So I'm
going to go and refactor the code. I'm
going to pause this want to do the
refactoring and then come back and
review with you to show you how we could
refactor this to make it a lot easier.
And a lot will lead to a lot better
quality code because we'll have the
logic in one spot rather than repeat it
in multiple spots.
Alright I've done the refactoring, fast
forward ahead a little bit and let's
step through what I changed here. So I'm
going to go and just do a compare on the
classes. So I'm going to come
up here and let's first take a look
at Recipe. So that's our entity and do a
quick show diff here and we can see that
I added into the setNotes() and we're
going to pass in a Notes object and of
course, regularly we do this, notes
equal notes and now on line 123
there, that is where we set the recipe. So
that's where we build that association.
So we don't have to do it outside of the class. It encapsulates
the logic which is exactly what we want
and then here unless we refactor that,
should be a capital I on addIngredient. So I'll refractor that in the class then
we go in and build the association for
the bi-directional association there as
well. So it's a handy class and typically
having a remove ingredient is going to
be a nice touch too. So that's something
that you may want to add. So this just is
a convenience method but it also
encapsulate syou're logic in one spot.
I'm going to fix that method name real
quick and in IntelliJ you can go refactor.
So I'm going to right click on it and
come up to refactor, rename and I want
that to be a capital "I". I just hit enter
and that that's going to update that
method and any references to that method. So that's why I wanted to use the
refactor so that's going to be a little
nice touch. Now I come over here and let's
take a quick look at the Ingredient. I
did make one change here, the diff and I
did have a constructor that took in all
four properties. I dropped the recipe
from that so we'll use the overloaded
method there to add in and we can see
that this is what's going to build that
bi-directional method there on 126-127.
So we don't have to pass in the Recipe
to the constructor here and let's take a
quick look. So this is our Bbootstrap
class. We'll take a quick look at him and
show you the diff on him.
And we can see here on 129 we were
able to drop that additional method call
now and then on let's take a look
at 132-133. You can see we don't have
the multiple chaining of method calls. So
we're not going out getting ingredients
and then doing the add method on. We're
just calling that helper method that we
wrote and we can see that we were able
to drop passing in the guacRecipe each
time. So definitely saves a little coding
and probably more reliable in the in the
long term. Alright so you can see how much nicer
this is to have these little convenience
methods fleshed out a little bit on our
entities. Make the setters a little bit
smarter so when we're bringing in these
additional objects, it also add in
convenience methods for ourselves. It's a
pretty common design pattern when you're
working with JPA entities. It does help
us out as far as code quality goes
because if we don't have constraints,
which we haven't got to in the course
yet, but we will, if you don't have those
constraints in place it's really really
easy to forget to set these when you're
managing both sides of that
bi-directional relationship. So by adding
in the convenience methods, it's
something that's going to keep your code
centralized
and you don't have to worry about
somebody forgetting to do that.